@samp{Libbow} is a library of C code intended for writing statistical
text-processing programs.  This distribution includes the library, as
well as a text classification front-end, and a document retrieval
front-end.

@format
The library provides facilities for:
        Recursively descending directories, finding text files.
        Finding `document' boundaries when there are multiple docs per file.
        Tokenizing a text file, according to several different methods.
        Including N-grams among the tokens.
        Mapping strings to integers and back again, very efficiently.
        Building a sparse matrix of document/token counts.
        Pruning vocabulary by occurrence counts or by information gain.
        Building and manipulating word vectors.
        Setting word vector weights according to NaiveBayes, TFIDF, and a
          simple form of Probabilistic Indexing.
        Scoring queries for retrieval or classification.
        Writing all data structures to disk in a machine-architecture-
          independent format.
        Reading the document/token matrix from disk in an efficient, 
          sparse fashion.
        Performing test/train splits, and automatic classification tests.
@end format       
 
It should compile on most UNIX systems, and WindowsNT (with a GNU build
environment).

The code conforms to the GNU coding standards.  It is released under the
Library GNU Public License.

@format
The library does not:
        Have parsing facilities.
        Do smoothing across N-gram models.
        Claim to be finished.
        Have good documentation.
        Claim to be bug-free.
        ...many other things.
@end format
